In this video, we're going to start to work on our post list, comment list and comment create components.
Right now, we're kind of deep in the world of React and it sure seems like we're not messing around
with microservices too much.
Don't worry, we just have to put these three components together very quickly.
And as I've mentioned several times now, we're going to start to see there's some really big issues
with our current microservices architecture.
So we're going to get back to the world of microservices very, very quickly.
In the meantime, let's just finish up these components really quickly to get started.
I'm going to go back over to my code editor for my React project.
Here it is right here.
Inside my CRC directory, I'm going to make a new file called Post List JS.
Inside of here.
I'll import React right away.
I'll do an export default.
Inside of here for right now.
I'm going to return an empty div.
And I'll make sure that I show this component inside of my app component.
So I'll go back over to my app file.
At the top.
I will import post lists from post list.
Then right underneath my post create, I'm going to add in an air.
So that's a horizontal rule, just to draw a line across the screen to make sure that it's clear to
users that they're looking at different section.
I'll put in an H one right underneath it.
And just put in their posts.
And also the post list component.
Okay.
So simple enough.
Let's go back over to our post list component.
So let's think about what this component really needs to do.
It needs to make a request over to our post service and get a list of all the posts that have ever been
created.
We're then going to iterate over that list of posts and create.
Some div or something similar to just show the title of each post inside of one of these little card
looking things.
Let's first add in some code to make a request to our post service to get the list of posts that have
been created.
Do so at the very top.
We're going to get that use state hook from React again because we do have to store our listed posts
somewhere.
I will also.
Import Axios from Axios so we can actually make the request itself.
Oh, one other quick thing we need here.
We need to use effect as well to make sure that we only try to fetch our list of posts one time when
our component is first created.
Okay.
So let's write out some code to actually make this request.
We'll first get a piece of state here, so we'll declare a new piece of state called Post.
And we do have to provide a initial starting value for this thing.
Now, you might be tempted inside of here to put like an array because, hey, we're getting some list
of posts, but I want you to think back to the post service that we really put together.
Let's go back over to the Post Code editor really quickly.
So I'm going to tab back over to my post service.
I'm inside of my post project right now.
I'm inside the indexed file inside there.
And as a quick reminder, we stored all of our posts inside of an object, and we're sending back that
entire object whenever someone tries to get a list of all of our posts.
So when we think about providing a default value for that use date call, we don't really want to put
an array inside there.
We want to put an object instead to kind of represent what our final state is going to actually look
like.
So back inside my post list component, rather than putting in an array as our default value right there,
I'll put in an object again just to represent how we're going to actually get this data back from our
API.
After that, I'm going to define a function that's going to make the actual request off to our host
service.
So I'm going to define a function called fetch posts.
This is going to be an async function because we probably want to use that async await syntax.
Inside of here.
We'll get some response from calling, await Axios docket and then remember to get our list of posts
we need to make a get request to local host 4000.
That's where our post service is.
And the actual endpoint that we want to reach out to is the post end point or the post route.
So we will put inside of your HTTP colon slash slash local host for 1000 slash posts.
As a quick reminder, any time we make a request with Axios, we get back your response object.
Our actual data is nested inside there on the data property.
So we're going to take that response or more specifically, the data from it and use it to update our
posts.
A piece of state we'll say set posts.
We'll be rez dot data.
Well, we've now got this function put together.
So now the next thing we need to do is decide when to call it.
That's why we got this use effect took as a reminder.
Use effect can be used to run some code at very specific points in time in the life cycle of a component.
In our case, we probably want to run fetch posts only when our component is first displayed on the
screen.
So to make sure that we can run this function only when this component is first displayed, we will
call use effect.
We will put in a function for right now as the first argument and then critically as the second argument,
we're going to put in an empty array.
That empty array right there is what's going to tell react to only run this function one time.
And then inside that function, we can actually call that turbos.
Very good.
It just has a quick test right after that use effect.
Let's put in the console log and we'll try to console log out our posts.
Ease of state.
Okay.
I'm going to save this flip back over.
And inside of my console right here, which I already have open, I can see that I've got one console.log.
That's the default value of posts that we initialized inside of our component.
And then right after that I've got an object that has a key of a01, blah, blah blah.
So that's the randomly generated ID that we generated when we first created a post and as a value is
the actual post itself.
So this looks good.
Now all we have to do is iterate over the values of this object.
And for every value on there, we're going to display a little post something on the screen.
Let's do that right now.
I'm going to go ahead and delete the console log we just put together.
And then after that I'm going to do a rendered post, and that's going to be the result of calling object
values on posts.
So Object Values is a built in function JavaScript that's going to give us back an array of all the
values inside of this object right here.
So it's going to essentially be an array of actual post objects.
We will then map over that array.
And for every post inside there.
We're going to generate some X and return it from this mapping function.
So I'm going to return.
We're going to put a little bit of markup right here.
I'll give myself a div on the div itself.
We're going to add in a class name of card.
I'm going to add it in a hardcoded style property just to make these cards look kind of nice.
I'm going to give this thing a width of 30%.
And a margin bottom of 26.
Let me save this so you can see that entire line.
And then because we are generating a list of elements here, React is going to expect us to place a
key property on each of the elements that we are creating, or I should say, the top level elements.
So to have an actual unique key.
I'll use the ID out of our post object because remember every post has an ID I'll say key is going to
be post id lexa.
All right.
Next up inside this live.
I'm going to give it a another div with the class name of card body.
I'll give it an H three.
And inside of that age three.
I'll display the actual post title.
So post title, making sure that I've got those curly braces as referring to a JavaScript variable right
here.
So I'd say it looks pretty good.
We are now generating a list of all the different post titles.
Now the last thing we need to do is to just make sure that we display rendered posts on the screen somewhere.
So we just need to make sure from the overall component, we return something that's going to wrap up
or display rendered posts.
So inside this dip, I'm going to open it up.
Give it a opening and closing tag.
And inside they're also rendered both.
I'm also going to give this dip right here.
A little class name.
I shouldn't say little.
This is going to be a kind of long series of class names just to get these cards to display or lay themselves
out very nicely.
We're going to say D, dash, flex, flex, dash, row, flex, dash, wrap.
And then just one more justify dash content dash between.
And I'll save that line once again so you can see it.
There we go.
Okay.
Let's save this.
Flip back over.
Quick test.
And there we go.
Now you probably see something like this right here.
Just as a reminder, whenever I'm showing my browser window, I'm almost always zoomed in so you can
see everything on my screen very easily.
So we've got that post listed right there.
And of course, we can create another post, so I'll say second post.
We can submit it.
The Post does not show up on the screen right away.
That's because we don't have any logic to actually refresh our list of posts, so I need to manually
refresh the page and once I do, I'll see the second post appear.
I can do a third post.
Submit it refresh.
And there's my third post.
All right, well, I'd say we're off to a good start, so one more quick pause.
Come back.
We're going to start to tackle all this commenting stuff.
So I'll see you in just a moment.